Update documentation about recorder and player creation via composition (#1510)
ros2/rosbag2: README.md

For up-to-date information on the available options for each, use `ros2 bag <verb> --help`.

> Moreover, `Player` and `Recorder` components can be instantiated in `rclcpp` component containers, which makes possible to use intra-process communication for greater efficiency.

Reviewer: nitpick: can be more precise as below?

```suggestion
Moreover, `rosbag2_transport::Player` and `rosbag2_transport::Recorder` components can be instantiated in `rclcpp` component containers, which makes possible to use intra-process communication for greater efficiency.
```

      include_hidden_topics: true
      include_unpublished_topics: false
      ignore_leaf_topics: false
      start_paused: false

    storage:
      uri: "/path/to/destination/folder"
      storage_id: "sqlite3"
      max_cache_size: 20000000
```
and
```yaml
player:
  ros__parameters:
    play:
      read_ahead_queue_size: 1000
      node_prefix: ""
      rate: 1.0
      loop: false
      clock_publish_frequency: 1.0
      clock_publish_on_topic_publish: true
      delay:
        sec: 0
        nsec: 0
      # Negative timestamps will make the playback to not stop.  
      playback_duration:
        sec: -1
        nsec: 00000000
      # Negative timestamps will make the playback to not stop.
      playback_until_timestamp:
        sec: -1
        nsec: 00000000
      start_paused: false
      start_offset: 
        sec: 0
        nsec: 00000000
      disable_keyboard_controls: true
      # Negative value means that published messages do not need to be acknowledged.
      wait_acked_timeout:
        sec: -1
        nsec: 00000000
      disable_loan_message: false

    storage:
      uri: "path/to/rosbag/file"
      storage_id: "sqlite3"
      storage_config_uri: ""
```

> 

Reviewer 2: @roncapat Could you please add a few words with the links to the full config files in our tests for reference?

[player_node_params.yaml](https://github.com/ros2/rosbag2/blob/34ccb39463f43a82b6d636ea75661cc6edd6c5f1/rosbag2_transport/test/resources/player_node_params.yaml)

[recorder_node_params.yaml](https://github.com/ros2/rosbag2/blob/34ccb39463f43a82b6d636ea75661cc6edd6c5f1/rosbag2_transport/test/resources/recorder_node_params.yaml)

Author: Done.

$ ros2 launch record_all.launch.xml
```

> You can also invoke the `play` and `record` functionalities as nodes. Nodes `player` and `recorder` are available in `rosbag2_transport` package. The advantage to use this invocation strategy is that the Python layer handling the `ros2 bag` CLI is completely skipped.

Reviewer 2: The advantage of skipping python layer looks like a very weak argument.  Because our python layer is a very thin wrapper around CPP API.
it would be worth mentioning that it gives the ability to provide settings for the rosbag2 via node config files and use intra-process communication for better efficiency by avoiding extra data copies on pub-sub transport layer.

Reviewer: besides above, 1 sentence for 1 line is recommended?

```suggestion
You can also invoke the `play` and `record` functionalities provided by `rosbag2_transport` package as nodes.
The advantage to use this invocation strategy is that the Python layer handling the `ros2 bag` CLI is completely skipped.
```

```python
import launch

def generate_launch_description():
    return launch.LaunchDescription([
        launch.actions.Node(
            package='rosbag2_transport',
            executable='player',
            name='player',
            output="screen",
            parameters=["/path/to/params.yaml"],
        )
    ])

> ```

Reviewer 2: Need to add a short example of the `params.yaml` config file. We can put a few essential lines for the idea of the syntax and how it should look like. Since we support partial parameters specification in yaml config it is will be a valid example to provide just a few parameters in it.

Reviewer 3: If you change the storageoptions.uri parameter, will it start writing under a new filename or are those parameters only used at startup? This could be really useful say for having named recordings.

Reviewer 2: Of course, as always all parameters are used only at startup. If need to change something in real time need to use services.

Author: May we link `rosbag2_transport/test/resources/player_node_params.yaml` and siblings to provide a full reference instead? Or: is a full reference file with all options and defaults needed? The linked one has purposely chosen bad or absurd params in it since it's meant as a test asset.

Reviewer 2: We can provide a link on test's yaml file but the short builtin example in addition will be better IMO.

- low network bandwith
- high CPU load
- slow mass memory
- ROS 2 middleware serialization/deserialization delays & overhead

ROS 2 C++ nodes can benefit from intra-process communication to partially or completely bypass network transport of messages between two nodes.

Multiple _components_ can be _composed_, either [statically](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Tutorials/Intermediate/Composition.html#compile-time-composition-using-ros-services) or [dynamically](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Tutorials/Intermediate/Composition.html#run-time-composition-using-ros-services-with-a-publisher-and-subscriber): all the composed component will share the same address space because they will be loaded in a single process.

A prerequirement is for each C++ node to be [_composable_](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Concepts/Intermediate/About-Composition.html?highlight=composition) and to follow the [guidelines](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Tutorials/Demos/Intra-Process-Communication.html?highlight=intra) for efficient publishing & subscription.

With the above requirements met, the user can:
- compose multiple nodes together
- explicitly enable intra-process communication

> Whenever a publisher and a subscriber on the same topic belong to the same _composed_ process, and intra-process is enabled for both, `rclcpp` completely bypasses RMW layer and below transport layer (i.e. DDS). Instead, messages are shared via process memory and *potentially* never copied. Some exception hold, so please have a look to the [IPC guidelines](https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Tutorials/Demos/Intra-Process-Communication.html?highlight=intra).

Reviewer: I am not sure if we want to re-explain the benefits from `Composition` in general, which is described in https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Concepts/Intermediate/About-Composition.html#ros-2-unified-api good.
I would refer to this link, and keep this doc to `how to use player and recorder as components` only in rosbag2 package.

Reviewer: btw, i just tried with the following. this is not expected result, i may be mistaken?

```bash
root@tomoyafujita:~/ros2_ws/colcon_ws# ros2 component load /ComponentManager composition rosbag2_transport::Player
Failed to load component: Failed to find class with the requested plugin name.
root@tomoyafujita:~/ros2_ws/colcon_ws# ros2 component load /ComponentManager composition rosbag2_transport::Recorder
Failed to load component: Failed to find class with the requested plugin name.
```

Reviewer 2: @fujitatomoya It works with 
```
ros2 component load /ComponentManager rosbag2_transport rosbag2_transport::Player
```
need to use `rosbag2_transport` instead of composition.
It seems to be able to use it as you expected with `ros2 component load /ComponentManager composition rosbag2_transport::Player` will need to use `composition` instead of the `${PROJECT_NAME}` here
https://github.com/ros2/rosbag2/blob/bbbb217e216557649b9333c9dfe34ca5a361770d/rosbag2_transport/CMakeLists.txt#L73-L77

Reviewer 2: As regards to the 
> I am not sure if we want to re-explain the benefits from Composition in general, which is described in https://docs.ros.org/en/rolling/Concepts/Intermediate/About-Composition.html#ros-2-unified-api good.
I would refer to this link, and keep this doc to how to use player and recorder as components only in rosbag2 package.

I have an opposite opinion and think it would be very useful to have a brief introduction with an explanation of why it is needed.

Reviewer 2: As regards `composition` name. Me and @fujitatomoya think it would be better to use `rosbag2` name instead of `rosbag2_transport` or `composition`.
i.e. to be
> ros2 component load /ComponentManager **rosbag2** rosbag2_transport::Player

Reviewer 2: @clalancette What do you think about proposal above ^^^.

Author: Unfortunately not easy, if you remember we already discussed during implementation. Current CMake registration macro doesn't allow as far as I understand to change package name when registering components in ament.

Author: https://github.com/ros2/rclcpp/blob/rolling/rclcpp_components/cmake/rclcpp_components_register_node.cmake

Author: The most trivial way to achieve so would be to register the components in `rosbag2` package, adding something like (draft code here):
```cpp
#include "rosbag2_transport/player.hpp"

namespace rosbag2 {

class Player : rosbag2_transport::Player {
  using rosbag2_transport::Player::Player;
};

}

#include "rclcpp_components/register_node_macro.hpp"

// Register the component with class_loader.
// This acts as a sort of entry point, allowing the component to be
// discoverable when its library is being loaded into a running process.
RCLCPP_COMPONENTS_REGISTER_NODE(rosbag2::Player)
```

Then build and register it inside `rosbag2` package `CMakeLists.txt`. Still unclear then if some component load tests would need to be moved out from `rosbag2_transport` too then.

Reviewer 2: @roncapat Thanks for the proposal with a workaround in the `rosbag2 package.
I would appreciate it if you could try to make prototype changes for that.  

I am sorry, that I don't have the capacity for such an experiment by myself for a while.

Author: Possible approach here https://github.com/ros2/rosbag2/pull/1603

> Here is an example of Python launchfile composition. Notice that components do not expect YAML files to be direclty passed to them: parameters have to be "dumped" out from the YAML file (if you have one). A suggestion of possible implementation is offered as a starting point.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here is an example of Python launchfile composition. Notice that composable container components do not expect YAML files to be directly passed to them: parameters have to be "dumped" out from the YAML file (if you have one). A suggestion of possible implementation is offered as a starting point.
```

}
```

Here's an example YAML configuration for both composable player and recorder:
```yaml
recorder:
  ros__parameters:
    use_sim_time: false

>     record:
>       all: true
>       is_discovery_disabled: false
>       rmw_serialization_format: "cdr"
>       topic_polling_interval:
>         sec: 0
>         nsec: 10000000
>       compression_mode: "file"
>       compression_format: "zstd"
>       compression_queue_size: 50
>       compression_threads: 4
>       include_hidden_topics: true
>       include_unpublished_topics: false
>       ignore_leaf_topics: false
>       start_paused: false

Reviewer 2: I would reduce the number of parameters in the example YAML file.  
For instance, I would remove parameters related to compression and serialization at least
```suggestion
    record:
      all: true
      is_discovery_disabled: false
      topic_polling_interval:
        sec: 0
        nsec: 10000000
      include_hidden_topics: true
      ignore_leaf_topics: false
      start_paused: false
```

    storage:
      uri: "/path/to/destination/folder"
      storage_id: "sqlite3"
      max_cache_size: 20000000
```
and
```yaml
player:
  ros__parameters:
    play:
      read_ahead_queue_size: 1000
      node_prefix: ""
      rate: 1.0
      loop: false

>       clock_publish_frequency: 1.0
>       clock_publish_on_topic_publish: true
>       delay:
>         sec: 0
>         nsec: 0
>       # Negative timestamps will make the playback to not stop.  
>       playback_duration:
>         sec: -1
>         nsec: 00000000
>       # Negative timestamps will make the playback to not stop.
>       playback_until_timestamp:
>         sec: -1
>         nsec: 00000000
>       start_paused: false
>       start_offset: 
>         sec: 0
>         nsec: 00000000
>       disable_keyboard_controls: true
>       # Negative value means that published messages do not need to be acknowledged.
>       wait_acked_timeout:
>         sec: -1
>         nsec: 00000000
>       disable_loan_message: false

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      # Negative timestamps will make the playback to not stop.  
      playback_duration:
        sec: -1
        nsec: 00000000
      start_paused: false
```
Please reduce the amount of parameters in the example YAML file.

    storage:
      uri: "path/to/rosbag/file"

>       storage_id: "sqlite3"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      storage_id: "mcap"
```
